Troubleshooting checklists (#66)
hbs-rcs/hbsgrid-docs: docs/help.md

1.  **If you are a guest**, have you successfully completed our [instructions](https://secure.hbs.edu/accountManagement/guest/research/new-member-instructions) to obtain access to the cluster?
2.  Are you [connected to the appropriate network](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#network-and-vpn): i.e., the HBS VPN if off-campus, or to the wired HBS ethernet/HBSSECURE wireless if on-campus? 
    - *Please note that using Harvard Secure VPN/Wireless or a non-HBS ethernet connection will not work.*
3.  Are you using the correct username and login hostnames as outlined in our [Quick Start guide](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/#quick-start)?
4.  **If you are accessing the cluster via NoMachine**:
    - Is your [home folder full](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#disk-quota)?
    - Have you [altered your login scripts](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#shell-misconfiguration) (.bashrc / .bash_profile)? Activating conda, software modules or other environments in these config files can cause problems with NoMachine connections.

## Storage & Project Spaces - Access Problems

1.  Has your access been approved by the sponsor of your space? 

>     - When you request access, our [automated system sends the project space sponsor an email](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/accountmanagement/#project-space-access) to formally approve your access. You will not be able to access a project space until the sponsor has formally approved.

Author: Technically for project spaces we *can* approve on a sponsor's behalf when truly necessary, if we otherwise have their approval in writing... not that we want to encourage faculty to work that way. Should we explicitly tell people that we can't?

>     - When you request access, our [automated system sends the project space sponsor an email](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/accountmanagement/#project-space-access) to formally approve your access. You will not be able to access a project space until the sponsor has formally approved.

Reviewer: Ah ok, what do you think about softening the language then, e.g.,:

```suggestion
    - When you request access, our [automated system sends the project space sponsor an email](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/accountmanagement/#project-space-access) to formally approve your access. We recommend contacting them to ensure they have received the email to approve access.
```

2.  **If you received an email indicating that the project space sponsor has approved your access**, have at least 2 hours passed since you were approved? This is how long the approval may take to sync in our systems.
3.  **If you are trying to access the project space by mounting/mapping the drive**, please check:
    - Are you [connected to the appropriate network](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#network-and-vpn): i.e., the HBS VPN if off-campus, or to the wired HBS ethernet/HBSSECURE wireless if on-campus? 

>     - Are you using the correct path / URL? (Note here to link to mapping instructions)

Author: More detailed instructions for the new docs is almost done and we'll link there--would rather not direct people to the old page, as a lot of it is really out of date

## HBSGrid Login & Account Issues

1.  **If you are a guest**, have you successfully completed our [instructions](https://secure.hbs.edu/accountManagement/guest/research/new-member-instructions) to obtain access to the cluster?
2.  Are you [connected to the appropriate network](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#network-and-vpn): i.e., the HBS VPN if off-campus, or to the wired HBS ethernet/HBSSECURE wireless if on-campus? 
    - *Please note that using Harvard Secure VPN/Wireless or a non-HBS ethernet connection will not work.*
3.  Are you using the correct username and login hostnames as outlined in our [Quick Start guide](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/#quick-start)?
4.  **If you are accessing the cluster via NoMachine**:
    - Is your [home folder full](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#disk-quota)?
    - Have you [altered your login scripts](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#shell-misconfiguration) (.bashrc / .bash_profile)? Activating conda, software modules or other environments in these config files can cause problems with NoMachine connections.

> 

Reviewer 2: - Nitpicky: This should be "HBSGrid Account & Login Issues"
- Also, the bullet formatting isn't consistent: In item2, the bullet is paranthetical; in #4, the bullets are essential. Perhaps change the latter two under #4 to 4a and 4b?
- Item3 we point to the QuickStart; but it's a little confusing as 'usernames' aren't pointed out well, and hostnames are kinda there. We'll need to bring the SSH login 'sidebar' into the QuickStart.
- The idea of QuickStart has been changed / watered down. Let's discuss.

Reviewer: Edited header. Bob and MV discussed that we will start with this format and then update the formatting.

2.  **If you received an email indicating that the project space sponsor has approved your access**, have at least 2 hours passed since you were approved? This is how long the approval may take to sync in our systems.
3.  **If you are trying to access the project space by mounting/mapping the drive**, please check:
    - Are you [connected to the appropriate network](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#network-and-vpn): i.e., the HBS VPN if off-campus, or to the wired HBS ethernet/HBSSECURE wireless if on-campus? 
    - Are you using the correct path / URL? (Note here to link to mapping instructions)
4.  **If you are trying to access the project space via NoMachine**, have you tried terminating your session and logging back in?
5.  **If you are trying to access the project space via Terminal**, have you tried accessing the project space from a new terminal?

## Storage & Project Spaces - Permission Problems
1.  Is the directory full? 
    - You may have received an email notifying you about having reached storage quotas on your home folder or project space.

>     - You can also check your disk usage by running the command `df -h filepath/to/directory`.

Reviewer: Ah ok, I can't seem to find that quota command--could you send?

2.  Have you run the HBSGrid Job Monitor script or checked the [status of your job](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/trouble/#troubleshooting-jobs-and-resources) using the terminal?
    -  The Job Monitor script can be found under "System Tools" in the Applications menu or simply by searching for "Job Monitor."
    -  If you are using NoMachine, the terminal can be found under applications. To check the status of the job, request 4GB of RAM and 1 CPU to avoid launching another interactive job.
3.  Do you already have 3 interactive sessions or 16 interactive cores running, or do you already have 150 cores running in total on the cluster? If you do, you have [reached the limit of the resources one user can request](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/menulaunch/#system-resources-limits).
4.  Are you asking for very large amounts of RAM / cores? If you are:
    - Are you over-asking? Could your request be reduced using information from previous runs or based on past usage or [data file sizes/types](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/menulaunch/#resource-recommendations)?

>     - Are you doing "big data" work? Could this be done more efficiently?

Reviewer: MV added notes about either waiting for the jobs to finish or killing low priority jobs to prioritize others.

2.  Have you [exceeded the time limit for your queue or run session](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/commandline/#job-queues-limits)?
3.  **If you are accessing the cluster via a terminal**, have you [loaded the RCS sofware environment](https://hbs-rcs.github.io/hbsgrid-docs/environments/#select-terminal-environment) (e.g., run `ml rcs`)?
4.  Did you check to determine if any application run logs might reveal why your program crashed?
5.  Are you writing log entries to troubleshoot where you are having problems?
6.  **If you are submitting a job from the command line**, are you saving the cluster errors and output for your job? This can be accomplished using the bsub [-o](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/spectrum-lsf/10.1.0?topic=o-o) and [-e](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/spectrum-lsf/10.1.0?topic=o-e) options, e.g., `bsub -q short -W 6:00 -R "rusage[mem=4000]" -M 4000 -o output_%J.out -e error_%J.err -B -N -u jharvard@hbs.edu`
7.  If you need additional assistance from RCS, please include the JOBID and any of the above logs in your submission. 

> 

Reviewer: This has been removed and we will add back at a later date.
